Welcome back, today,
we begin our module on data extraction.
In this module, we'll focus on learning
the basics of a powerful language called
Structured Query Language, or SQL,
that's used to extract data
from relational database.
So what is SQL?
Like relational databases themselves, SQL
was developed in the early 1970s to help
users manipulate and
extract data from those databases.
It's a language that's based
on relational algebra,
which is a set of mathematical operations
that speak to how things are related,
like intersections,
unions and differences.
In 1986, SQL was adopted as an American
National Standards Institute, or
ANSI, standard.
And in 1987, it was adopted as an
International Standards Organization, or
ISO, standard.
Note that there are different proprietary
versions of the SQL language used in
different database systems.
However, it turns out that
the differences are very subtle.
And they are almost all identical
when it comes to basic syntax.
This is one of the reasons SQL is
such a highly transferable skill.
In this course,
we'll be focusing on SQL queries or
pieces of code that extract
data from database tables.
However, SQL's actually
a much broader language,
which could be used to both create and
manipulate data within a database,
using data definition or
data manipulation operations.
Okay, before we dive in,
let's remind ourselves of what we're
looking at when we have
a relational database.
Our database is generally made up
of two dimensional tables that have
a set of defined relationships among them.
Most relational databases are row
oriented, meaning that the ideas or
items described in a table are stored
in rows with the columns of the table
containing attributes that describe
the ideas or items of interest.
The idea behind a SQL query is to extract
just the data we want from a database
table or set of tables.
Let's start by outlining a short list
of common commands that can be used on
one table.
In a later video, we'll talk about
how to work with multiple tables.
Here we have a very short list of the most
common commands used in SQL queries.
Select, from, where, group by,
having, and order by.
In fact, the majority of queries on single
tables can be constructed using just these
commands and a little creativity.
Pretty simple, right?
Let's outline what these commands do.
The SELECT commands define
which attributes, columns, or
fields I want to extract from the table.
Normally I'm not interested in
all the attributes in a table, so
select allows me to bring
back only the ones I need.
The FROM command defines the table
from which I want to extract the data.
The SELECT and FROM commands work together
and are required in every SQL query.
All other commands are optional.
The where command adds filters that
restrict which rows of data are extracted
from the table.
Similar to the way the SELECT
command only return columns I want,
the WHERE command only returns data
based on the rows I want included.
Sometimes, I don't actually want the rows
themselves, but some aggregation of
the rows, for example, maybe I have a
table that list purchase transactions, but
what I really want is a summary of
purchase transactions by month.
The GROUP BY command is used to define
the level of aggregation I want in
the output data set.
If I do want aggregated data, and I want
to filter the output set further based
on those aggregations,
I use the HAVING command.
The HAVING command is similar to the WHERE
command, except that it operates on
aggregated rows of data versus
the underlying rows of the database table.
This might be a little confusing at first,
but
the difference will become clearer
when we run through some examples.
Finally, the ORDER BY command allows
me to define how I want the output set
to be sorted.
Now that we've identified
what these commands do,
let's walk through each
of them in more detail.
The way we'll do this is we'll talk
about the syntax of each command,
then illustrate with how
it works with an example.
Syntax describe the rules for
how your code needs to be written, so
that it's understood by
the software tools that execute it.
We'll start with the SELECT and
FROM commands.
Remember that the SELECT
commands defines which columns or
fields we want from a table.
And the FROM command identifies
which table that is.
The basic syntax of a query using
these commands looks like this.
On the first line I have
the SELECT command,
followed by each field I want,
separated by commas.
On the second line, I have the FROM
command followed by a table name.
You'll notice that no additional
punctuation is needed,
like a semicolon or
other character at the end of each line.
In fact, with SQL,
you generally don't need to put
things on separate lines at all.
I like to put commands on separate
lines for readability, but
I could have just as easily put
both commands on a single line.
Let's illustrate how the SELECT and
FROM commands work using an example.
Consider a simple table that contains
a list of purchase transactions.
We'll call this the transactions table.
Each row represents a single purchase
transaction, and the columns contain
information about each transaction,
specifically a Transaction_ID,
which uniquely identifies the transaction,
a customer ID which identifies
the customer, the channel through which
the product was sold, the product name,
the price of the product, and the amount
of any discount that was applied.
Let's say that we were interested in
extracting just the channel, product, and
price for each transaction.
Here's what our code would
look like to do this.
I select channel, product,
and price from transactions.
When I run this code,
I get the following data set.
There's a row for
each transaction in the source table, but
I've only extracted channel, product,
and price in the myopia data set.
There's one special case we want
to introduce before we move on to
the next command.
Let's say that I wanted all
the columns from a table.
I can include each column name
in my select statement, but
this can get pretty tedious, especially if
my table has a large number of columns.
Luckily, SQL provides us a shorthand way
of identifying all columns in the table,
using what's called a wildcard character.
In this case, an asterisk or star.
If I want to return all
columns of the table,
I just use SELECT * FROM TABLE_NAME,
like this.
This particular query would simply
extract a copy of the whole table, but
generally we combine this with other
commands that restrict rows or
bringing multiple tables together.
We'll see how this works in
practice in a few minutes.
Okay, now that we
understand the select and
from statements,
let's move on to the where command.
Remember that the WHERE command allows
us to restrict which rows of data
are returned in our query.
The syntax of the where
command is simply where
followed by a set of conditions
defined using relational algebra.
Like a column equaling a certain value or
another column, being greater than or
less than a certain value or
another column, or
even being a member of
a specific list of values.
If you have experience in Excel,
this is similar to how the filter function
works in restricting
rows of a spreadsheet.
Again, let's illustrate using an example.
We'll start with the same transactions
table we introduced earlier.
Let's say that I want to return
all transactions in this table
to have store as the channel.
My query to do that would look like this.
Remember that the SELECT and
FROM commands are always required, so
I start with those.
I've used the wild card character star,
to indicate that I want all
columns to be returned.
So SELECT * FROM TRANSACTIONS, and
I've added WHERE CHANNEL = 'STORE'.
Note that store is enclosed
in single quotation marks.
In SQL, string values are those
containing letters or numbers and
letters are always enclosed
in single quotation markets.
If you don't do that, the SQL engine will
think you're referring to a column name or
a table name versus
a specific column value.
When I run this query I
get the expected result,
a dataset that only contains transactions
with a channel of store, but
which has all columns
from the source table.
Let's take our example one step further,
and bring together both column filtering
using the SELECT command, and
row filtering using the WHERE command.
If we wanted to return just the channel,
product, and price columns for
transactions that happened in a store,
we write a query that looks like this.
SELECT CHANNEL, PRODUCT, PRICE FROM
TRANSACTIONS WHEHRE CHANNEL = 'STORE'.
Now my output data set only
contains those three columns, and
only transactions with
the sales channel of store.
Okay, so far we've introduced some of
the basic commands used in SQL queries.
And we've explored column and
row filtering operations using the SELECT,
FROM, and WHERE commands.
In a subsequent video, we're going
to focus on data aggregation and
sorting operations in SQL using the
GROUP BY, HAVING, and ORDER BY commands.